why are we seeing more of these threats
is it because more people like you are
getting better at tracking them down or
they're just more of these things
happening out there well I think it's a
combination of both it's a pleasure to
be here I think in this particular case
the the vulnerability was was widespread
roughly 1 in 4 users visiting the web
going to any website that hosts this
type of exploit would have gotten
compromised and we don't see this going
away in fact you know we detected this
particular threat group as recent as
Friday and we had to move very quickly
to get detection response prevention and
advisory out very quickly in order to
respond to this threat fundamentally I
don't see that this this particular
issue is going to go away anytime soon
darian are you looking in particular for
flaws in XP because it's not being
supported with the notion that hackers
are doing the same no actually we're
looking at the threat groups that are
actually using these attacks and using
these vulnerabilities to go after
victims worldwide in fact you know we're
able to detect and see these types of
zero-day vulnerabilities being
weaponized into attacks just by looking
at the effects of the victims involved
and we're able to then further develop
defenses protections as well as
advisories based upon that we don't need
to necessarily go through and documents
all the different vulnerabilities these
attackers already doing that for us so
daring walk us through how serious this
particular vulnerability is and what
does it actually mean well so
fundamentally you know zero-day
vulnerabilities and zero-day attacks are
roughly two different things
vulnerabilities themselves are not
necessarily that serious unless you're
doing with a remote code execution
vulnerability that allows an attacker to
fundamentally compromise a user remotely
anywhere from only on the internet those
are the types that we see constantly
used by these different threat groups
and those are the ones that we see the
most severe fundamentally we see this
type of issue getting worse over time
okay so if I have internet explorer what
should I do well fundamentally right now
you can go through and disable flash
that seems to be the initial infection
vector here you can also enable ie
protected mode Microsoft is actually
rolled out a toolkit called the enhanced
mitigation experience toolkit emmett
versions for dot 125 or you can
obviously switch to a different browser
you know you talked about finding the
effects of the victims involved and
using that as a methodology what
specific effects have you got any
anecdotes of something that happened to
someone or to a company well we
certainly in this particular case we
worked with closely with many of our
customers who were who were targeted in
this particular campaign we went through
and actually merged the intelligence
collected from our worldwide sensor grid
of appliances protecting our customers
along with our boots on the ground those
folks involved with Incident Response
professional services and managed
defense to fuse together this
information to go from discovering the
exploit to rolling out detection for it
to rolling out prevention for it as well
as working with Microsoft's to actually
release the advisory less than 24 hours
on a weekend so I guess I guess my point
is like what did you see happening that
let you roll isn't together in descent
into an alert well we we start with some
sort of spear phishing attack typically
in this particular case the threat group
involved was launching some sort of
malicious link within mail messages and
unfortunately those victims were
clicking on the links getting
compromised seeing the results of that
and then learning exactly how the
compromised occurred because normally
visiting a website should not compromise
an endpoint but in this case that's
exactly what was happening what do you
see happening as a result of this darian
a do you see Microsoft offering a fix
for XP users be do you see people
downloading Chrome or Mozilla instead
I see it's it's really just a
combination you know this this should be
the final nail in the coffin for windows
XP users they should really not be using
that operating system anymore for those
users who are using internet explorer
but later versions of Windows a variety
of different mitigations would would
solve this problem you know the most
effective one that we've seen is
actually deploying amet because it would
have captured not only this particular
exploit but the past three to four that
we've seen this year plus ten or so
others for the last year unfortunately
though that's not going to work for most
enterprises based off of the the pains
of rolling out that type of fix so
that's why Microsoft op is offering
these other different medications such
as turning on protected mode potentially
disabling activex controls or flash all
together